In this section, we are going to discuss about character sets and range used with regular expressions.
Before we begin any discussion, there is an important note I need to mention that is, in this section
we are going to see the basic ways and syntax of sets and ranges used in various combinations along
with character classes.
So we will be trying sets and ranges in detail with advanced implementation.
Once we start working with character classes in this section, we will just get familiar with most common
and simple usage and of course syntax of using sets and range.
So let's begin with character sets to search for W and I in the string.
So let's write the code.
Let's declare a variable where I say let str is equal to.
I wonder why it's windy.
Now I'm going to define the pattern.
So I will mention the W and I in square brackets.
Of course I'm going to say slash G for global search and then let's try to that log.
And we are using the match method.
Let's run the code.
As you can see, because we have given slash G that is global search.
It searched three WS and two A's in the entire string.
So by giving W.I in square bracket, we are giving set of characters to be searched in a given string.
Let's also search for character.
Oh.
So in the same code with w i.
I will also add.
Oh.
Here.
Let's run the code again.
So you can add a set of characters you want to search in square brackets.
Let's take one more example.
Let's try to search for words, starting with W.
Second character can be I or.
So I will say I o in square bracket.
And then n.
Let's run the code.
Of course, it is not returning the entire world.
If you want it, then you can add slash W plus character class.
But we will try it when we learn the topic of character classes.
The next topic I want to discuss is character range.
Again, we use square brackets only to specify range of characters.
So now let's try to quickly check range using square brackets.
For example, I want to search for characters between I and O.
Remember I'm giving range that is starting from a till or whichever character is between I and O that
we want to search.
So the pattern will be in the square bracket.
I will say I dash.
Oh, let's try to run this.
So now it has returned all the characters between I and oh.
One more example.
We can try with numbers also.
Of course, the search is of characters.
That is no numeric operation getting executed here.
Let's try to find all the numbers in the string between one and five.
So we'll create a string which has numbers.
Let's also declare the pattern where I will say one five in the square brackets and of course, the
slash G for global search.
Let's try to console.log with the match method.
And now you see that all the numbers between one and five are return that is nine, eight and seven
or even six, but that is not in the list of output.
One more example where we can try to find all the capital letters using this range syntax.
In that case, the pattern will look like this.
Let's try to create a string variable where we have few upper and lower cases.
And of course, let's create a pattern where I will say square brackets, a dash z slash G.
Let's use the match method and run the code.
So now you see that all the characters return are the capital letters.
So the square bracket can be used to specify a set of characters, or you can give a range.
When you say a dash between two characters inside the square brackets.